## Course requirements and policies

### Assessment

#### Participation

**10%** The success of any course is directly related to the levels of engagement
brought both by the instructor and the students. As such, class participation
is vitally important. Similarly, though attendance is logically required for
class participation, it is not sufficient. This class requires active
participation both inside the classroom and outside.  

You can miss up to three meetings without penalty, and you can use these
opportunities tactically, to provide space and time to either fulfill other
obligations or recuperate from the previous night. I don’t care why you didn’t
come. I start to care with the fourth absence, and I start to require
documentation. Repeated absence—including excused—quickly gobbles up the class
participation component of the grade and begins to threaten your ability to
even *pass* the course.

In a discussion-oriented class, “active participation” involves the following
components. All of these are necessary to receive maximum points for
participation:

* being in class on time,
* arriving having done the reading for that day,
* participating in short writing assignments in class,
* participating in class discussion in ways that build upon contributions from others, and
* refraining from the use of electronic devices.

#### Reading journal and dust collection

**15%** For one class meeting a week (groups will be determined on the first
day), you will be required to post your latest entry in your reading journal
three hours ahead of time (at the latest) to our class blog. A reading journal
provides you with the opportunity to jot down both your thoughts regarding
that meeting’s reading and points of entry to the text that will help
kickstart class participation with questions about specific passages. The
journals should be around 500 words in length. These are experimental moments
for you, so do not hesitate to take risks in your readings. That said, they
should be written clearly. 

After spring break, when we begin to focus on the East Village, you will
supplement your reading journals with “dust collection,” wherein you add your
own interactions with the mediascape by walking around the East Village,
mediated by your telephone or other recording device, to your post. The goal
here is to help build the foundations that will eventually go into the final
project. 

#### Dérives

**30%** You will undertake two
[dérives](http://www.cddc.vt.edu/sionline/si/theory.html) during the semester.
In both, you will get lost in Downtown, while also documenting and tracking
yourself. In order to direct your dérive, you will use either the [Derive
App](http://deriveapp.com/s/v2/) for your smartphone or a set of cards printed
out ahead of time. In order to track the dérive, you are required to trace
your path and take notes on a [Field Papers
atlas](http://fieldpapers.org/compose#14/40.7220/-73.9924) and, if possible,
track yourself using GPS (the Derive App, if you let it, will save your
route).

During the course of the dérive, which can last hours, you should reflect on
the work we have already done for the class, both in what you observe
while getting lost, but also in the process of getting lost itself. This is a
time for [psychogeography](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychogeography), not
wandering listlessly about while checking the ’Gram. Stroll without
headphones; look around and feel the environment around you.
  
At the end, you will write up a short (1,000–1,250 words) report for each
dérive, including textual references from our readings. The report will be
joined by the original Field Papers atlas with notes. You can and are
encouraged to use other forms of media to supplement the report.

#### Artifact post

*25%* During the second half of the semester, you will craft a report/post (1,000 –
1,500 words) about a single artifact you have found in the [Downtown
Collection at the Fales
Library](https://guides.nyu.edu/downtown-collection/overview). In describing
the artifact, you should position it within the media spatiohistory of
Downtown by investigating the various networks and archaeologies
criss-crossing within the artifact. You will need to pitch me on the artifact
in the form of the one-paragraph précis. You will also improve upon this post
over the course of our collaboration on the final project. The post should
follow basic rules of academic citation.

#### Final project — “Downtown Archaeologies”

**20%** In the last few weeks of the course, we will combine the artifact
posts with other, shorter works to create the “Downtown Archaeologies.”
Working collaboratively, we will draw connections between our various
artifacts and determine which nodes are missing between them, subsequently
filling in those edges with new nodes that take the form of shorter posts
involving further research either at Fales or elsewhere. We will try to tailor
the tasks to the strengths of the students. Additional writing, of course,
should follow basic rules of academic citation.
